---
layout: news
category: news
date: 2017-09-09
version: 0.5.0
title: Opening up the Cookie Store
summary: Added ctx.cookieStore(), Headers.kt, and removed some old functions
---

## Introducing the cookieStore
The new `ctx.cookieStore()` functions provide a convenient way for sharing information between handlers, request, or even servers:
```java
ctx.cookieStore(key, value) // store any type of value
ctx.cookieStore(key) // read any type of value
ctx.clearCookieStore() // clear the cookie-store
```
The cookieStore works like this:
1. The first handler that matches the incoming request will populate the cookie-store-map with the data currently stored in the cookie (if any).
2. This map can now be used as a state between handlers on the same request-cycle, pretty much in the same way as `ctx.attribute()`
3. At the end of the request-cycle, the cookie-store-map is serialized, base64-encoded and written to the response as a cookie.
   This allows you to share the map between requests and servers (in case you're running multiple servers behind a load-balancer)

### Example:
```kotlin
serverOneApp.post("/cookie-storer") { ctx ->
    ctx.cookieStore("string", "Hello world!")
    ctx.cookieStore("i", 42)
    ctx.cookieStore("list", listOf("One", "Two", "Three"))
}

serverTwoApp.get("/cookie-reader") { ctx -> // runs on a different server than serverOneApp
    val string = ctx.cookieStore<String>("string")
    val i = ctx.cookieStore<Int>("i")
    val list = ctx.cookieStore<List<String>>("list")
}
```

Since the client stores the cookie, the `get` request to `serverTwoApp`
will be able to retrieve the information that was passed in the `post` to `serverOneApp`.

## Added Header.kt
A constant-class holding all common headers has been added:
```kotlin
object Header {
    const val ACCEPT = "Accept"
    const val ACCEPT_CHARSET = "Accept-Charset"
    etc...
}
```

`const val` in Kotlin behaves like `public static final` in Java, and can be called like `Header.ACCEPT` from both languages.

## Added `ctx.basicAuthCredentials()`
Added a function which returns a `BasicAuthCredentials` object, which has username and password used for basic-auth.

## Removed two functions
* `Javalin#ipAddress` has been removed. The IP can still be configured via `Javalin#embeddedServer`,
but the functionality is not used often enough to deserve its own method.
* `Context#bodyParam` has been removed. It was just an alias for `Context#formParam`, which is still there.

{% include macros/newsSummary.md from="0.4" to="0.5" %}
