---
layout: news
category: news
date: 2018-10-06
version: 2.3.0
title: App attributes, Jetty HandlerCollections, and a lot of improvements
summary: Added app attributes, Jetty HandlerCollection support, and an automatic module name.
  Fixed and improved upon the Validator and JavalinJackson features. Fixed bugs in static files and HttpResponseException.
---

### App attributes
You can now register attributes on the Javalin instances by calling `app.attribute(Class, Object)`.
These attributes can be retrieved on the instance by calling `app.attribute(Class)`,
or inside Handlers by calling `ctx.appAttribute(Class)`.

As an example, here's how to make a `ConnectionPool` available to every Handler:

```java
Javalin app = Javalin.create()
    .attribute(ConnectionPool.class, new ConnectionPool());
    .get("/some-path", SomeOtherClass::controller)
    .start(7070);

class SomeOtherClass {
    static void controller(Context ctx) {
        Connection c = ctx.appAttribute(ConnectionPool.class).getConnection()
    }
}
```

### Custom Jetty HandlerCollection
It's now possible to add a custom `HandlerCollection` to the Jetty instance that Javalin uses.
Javalin is added at the end of the collection.

### Improved Java 9-11 support
Javalin now uses the automatic module name `io.javalin` for Java9+ projects.
All of Javalin's tests run against JDK8, JDK9, JDK10, and JDK11.

### Jackson improvements
* The Jackson `ObjectMapper` is now available through `JavalinJackson.getObjectMapper()`.
* The dependency checker will now advice you to add the `jackson-module-kotlin` dependency
if you're using Jackson from Kotlin.

### Validator fixes
* Initially, the `notNullOrEmpty` check was performed in the constructor.
  It has now been moved to the `getOrThrow()`/`asClass()` methods.
* The `Validator` used to swallow exceptions for unregistered converters. This has been fixed.
* Added overloads to the `check` method.

### Misc bugfixes
* When handling static files, Javalin used to mark any file with a path starting with "/immutable" as immutable.
  Javalin now requires files to be in a directory named exactly "immutable" as the docs specify.
* The response exceptions (`HttpResponseException`) used to have a `msg` property, this has been
  deprecated in favor of the standard `message` property on exceptions.
* It's no longer possible to set/replace an `AccessManager` after the Server has started.


## Thanks to all contributors
This release was created with the help of seven different contributors.
If you want to get involved, head on over to [https://github.com/tipsy/javalin](https://github.com/tipsy/javalin)
